<h1>
  <span class="headline">Skyrockit</span>
  <span class="subhead">Build Create Functionality</span>
</h1>

**Learning objective:** By the end of this lesson, students will be able to implement and understand the 'Create' operation in a CRUD application by setting up a RESTful `POST` route in an Express application.

With our form in place for adding new job applications, the next critical step is to establish the route that will handle the form data and create a new entry in our database. This is where the 'Create' operation in our CRUD functionality comes into play.

## Conceptualizing the route

According to our RESTful routing chart, the route responsible for creating a new job application is a `POST` request. This type of request is used for sending data to the server to create a new resource. In our case, the route will look like this:

```plaintext
POST /users/:userId/applications
```

This route signifies that we are posting new job application data associated with a specific user (identified by `:userId`).

## Update the form action in `new.ejs`

Now, let's update the `<form>` in our `new.ejs` file to ensure it sends data to the correct route. Modify the form's `action` attribute to match our future `POST` route. The `method` attribute should be set to `POST` as well, indicating the type of request we're making:

```html
<!-- views/applications/new.ejs -->

<form action="/users/<%= user._id %>/applications" method="POST">
  <!-- Form inputs here -->
</form>
```

By setting the form's action attribute to our `POST` route, we direct the form data to the appropriate server endpoint when the form is submitted. The `user._id` in the action URL dynamically inserts the current user's ID, ensuring the new job application is associated with the right user.

## Defining the route and coding the controller

Next, we need to build the route we listed in our form action. In our `applications` controller, let's create the following:

```js
// controllers/applications.js`

router.post('/', async (req, res) => {
  try {
    // Look up the user from req.session
    const currentUser = await User.findById(req.session.user._id);
    // Push req.body (the new form data object) to the
    // applications array of the current user
    currentUser.applications.push(req.body);
    // Save changes to the user
    await currentUser.save();
    // Redirect back to the applications index view
    res.redirect(`/users/${currentUser._id}/applications`);
  } catch (error) {
    // If any errors, log them and redirect back home
    console.log(error);
    res.redirect('/');
  }
});
```

> 🧠 Note: We're directly pushing the `req.body` object to the current user's `applications`, which is why it was so important that the key:value pairs generated by the form match perfectly with our schema. Any mistakes in matching will result in lost data, as Mongoose will reject anything that is not defined inside of the schema.

With that, our two-step `new` and `create` functionality is complete. While the entire `create` process is invisible to the user, it's still a necessary step in completing the first user story. Without a `POST` route, and a controller to manage the incoming form data, the user would be submitting data to nowhere rather than saving it to a database.

## Testing your route

Sign in and test your new form. If the data was successfully saved you should be redirected to the applications page. You can also check your database in the MongoDB Atlas dashboard.
